Title: Microsoft Word - arXiv.docx

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.24099v1

Published Time: Wed, 24 Jun 2026 00:26:17 GMT

Number of Pages: 31

Markdown Content:
1

# Exploring Academic Influence of Algorithms 

# by Co -occurrence Network Based on Full -text 

# of Academic Papers 

Yuzhuo Wang 1, Chengzhi Zhang 2, *, Min Song 3, Seong Deok Kim 3, Youngsoo Ko 3, Juhee Lee 3

1. Department of Management Science and Engineering , Anhui University, Hefei, 230601 , China 

2. Department of Information Management, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210094, China 

3. Department of Information Science, Yonsei University, Seoul, 03722, Korea 

Abstract 

Purpose - In the era of artificial intelligence (AI), algorithms have gained unprecedented importance. 

Scientific studies have shown that algorithms are frequently mentioned in papers, making mention frequency 

a classical indicator of their popularity and i nfluence. However, contemporary methods for evaluating 

influence tend to focus solely on individual algorithms, disregarding the collective impact resulting from the 

interconnectedness of these algorithms , which can provide a new way to reveal their roles and importance 

within algorithm clusters. This article aims to build the co -occurrence network of algorithms in the natural 

language processing (NLP ）field based on the full -text content of academic papers, and analyze the academic 

influence of algorithms i n the group based on the features of the network. 

Design/methodology/approach - We use deep learning models to extract algorithm entities from articles and 

construct the whole, cumulative, and annual co -occurrence networks. We first analyze the characteris tics of 

algorithm network s, and then use various centrality metrics to obtain the score and ranking of group influence 

for each algorithm in the whole domain and each year . Finally, we analyze the influence evolution of different 

representative algorithms. 

Findings - The results indicate that algorithm networks also have the characteristics of complex networks, 

with tight connections between nodes developing over approximately two decades. For different algorithms, 

Algorithms that are classic, high -performing, and app ear at the junctions of different eras can possess high 

popularity, control, central position, and balanced influence in the network. As an algorithm gradually 

diminishes its sway within the group, it typically loses its core position first, followed by a dwindling 

association with other algorithms. 

Originality/value - This article is the first large -scale analysis of algorithm network s. The extensive temporal 

coverage, spanning over four decades of academic publications, ensures the depth and integrity of t he 

network. Our results serve as a cornerstone for constructing multifaceted networks interlinking algorithms, 

scholars, and tasks, facilitating future exploration of their scientific roles and semantic relations. 

Keywords: Algorithm co -occurrence network, Algorithm enti ties, Full -text content of Articles 

# 1. Introduction 

We currently stand at the dawn of the era of artificial intelligence (AI) . T he AI revolution is 

reshaping our lives at an astonishing pace , fundamentally altering how we work, learn , and 

even live together (Azo ulay, 2019) . In th is new era, algorithms, computing power, data , and 

knowledge are the key elements of artificial intelligence (Tang, 2021; Byte Bridge, 2021; Deng 

et al ., 2020) , with algorithms being particularly significant because they are the backbone of  

> *

Corresponding author , Ema il: zhangcz@njust.edu.cn 2

computer systems and are essential in revealing “indirect, non -obvious ” corrections in data 

(Hickman, 2013) . In today ’s data -driven research landscape , algorithms play a critical role, 

as they are important research objects and have been optimized, innovated, and proposed 

by scientists to cater to the evolving demands of data -driven exploration (Balcan, 2020; 

Gupta and Roughgarden, 2020) . At the same time, in data -driven research, information 

technology is engaged in the operation, collection, transport, retrieving, storage, access 

presentation, and transformation of information in all its forms , inseparable from various 

algorithms. Indeed, algorithms are the driving to solve real -world challenges, from monitoring 

epidemic s (Kogan et al. , 2021) to enhancing intelligent transportation (Matheson, 2020) ,

optimizing agricultural management (Talaviya et al. , 2020) , and enabling smart home s (Fleury 

et al. , 2010) .

However, defining algorithms remains a nuanced and often contentious endeavor (Blass 

and Gurevich, 2004) , and usually depends on whom we ask (Lum and Chowdhury, 2021) .

In the general context, an algorithm is a set of rules that precisely define a sequence of 

operations (Stone, 1971) . In the context of progra mming, some scholars equate d algorithms 

to a programming language (Knuth, 1996) . Corm en et al . (2009) provided a more detailed 

definition : “Informally, an algorithm is any well -deified computational procedure that 

takes some value, or set of values, as input and produces some value, or set of values, as 

output.” Within the AI realm , an algorithm was recognized as “a method of analyzing data 

in a way that makes it possible for the machine to analyze and process data” (Genics, 2019) .

While the definitions of algorithms may vary , it is irrefutable that algorithms are 

frequently mentioned in academic papers, making academic papers a crucial medium for 

disseminating algorithm -related knowledge (Bhatia and Mitra, 2012) . Scholars directed 

their attention towards extracting algorithm -related metadata (Tuarob, 2016) and algorithm 

entities (Wang an d Zhang, 2020) from academic paper s, and evaluating their academic 

influence or performance to form a leaderboard (“Papers with Code - Browse the State -of -

the -Art in Machine Learning”, 202 3; “The Heart of Machine”, 202 3). The academic 

influence of algo rithms serve s as a pivotal reference point for scholars when selecting and 

understanding algor ithms , and shed s light on the development trends within a specific field 

(Wang and Zhang, 2020) . However, the current ac ademic influence evaluation only focuses 

on individual algorithm characteristics , neglecting the relationship between algorithms and 

the role of algorithms in the com munity, which could provide a new perspective on 

measuring individual influence from the group function. Consider two algorithms with an 

identical frequency of mentions , and they may have different statuses within a community. 

Regrettably, there has been no research analyz ing whether the algorithms in a field have 

been mentioned together or exploring the interconnection, separation, status gap , and other 

attributes between the algorithm individuals in a community. To fill this gap, we construct 

a co -occurr ence network of algorithms and measure the influence based on the centrality 

indicators , shedding light on the broader context of how algorithms are employed in 

scientific research .

Taking the algorithms in natural language processing (NLP) as research ob jects, we 

sought to answer the following research questions :

RQ 1. What is the structure of the NLP algorithm network , and how has it evolved over 

time? 

We want to understand if the network constructed by algorithm s also has the same 

properties as other complex networks , how the current algorithm network was formed , and 3

whether the connection between algorithms chang ed during the development of the NLP 

field .

RQ2 . What are the vital algorithms in the algorithm network? 

Various centralities in complex networks have been used to measure the influence of 

countries, institutions, scholars, papers, keywords, terms, and other scientific objects .

However, there has been little research on the role and influen ce of algorithm entities based 

on community features. After confirming that the algorithm network conforms to the 

complex network characteristics , this paper aims to use different indicators within the 

network, identify representative algorithms in various roles, and provide new insights into 

evaluating academic influence. 

RQ3 . How doe s the academic influence of algorithm s based on the network features 

chang e?

We aim to dis cern whether algorithms experience shifts in influence and roles within the 

network, and manifest distinctive attributes at different stages of its life cycle. 

The research object in this article is the algorithm entity, not the metadata (the pseudo -

code), types of algorithms (classification algorithms), or gener al algorithms (Bubble 

sorting). Based on existing research (Cormen et al ., 2009; Genics, 2019; Wang et al ., 2022; 

Zhang et al ., 2023) , we define an algorithm in our study as a well -deified computational 

procedure with a specific name, like support vector machines. It should be distinguished 

via software (VOSviewer), system (Unix), dataset (ACL RD -TEC), and metrics (BLEU), 

while an algor ithm entity is a noun or noun phrase indicating the name of an algorithm. 

Without special instructions, both algorithms and algorithm entities refer to nouns or noun 

phrases representing explicit algorithms. 

Unlike academic object networks that rely solely on bibliographic information, the 

networks in this study were constructed using the full -text content of scholarly articles ,

since t he full text enables us to collect more algorithm nodes, obtain a complete network ,

and produce a landscape of the algorith ms in the NLP domain. Generally, our work lays 

the foundation for constructing networks based on fine -grained knowledge entities and 

using network characteristics to analyze the ir influence, explore their relationships, and 

analyze their evolution. Based on algorithm entities, our research provides a

comprehensive methodology that spans from entity extraction to network construction and 

then impact evaluation , which is different from traditional counting m ethods and allows 

for distinguishing the roles of algorithms within a group. It offers a reference for measuring 

the influence and status of other types of knowledge in different fields. The influence 

evaluation results supplement the traditional algorithm leaderboard, revealing key 

algorithms that hold significant positions and play a driving role in the algorithm 

community of the entire field. Therefore, our results can be applied by researchers to 

understand the history of algorithms, choose algorithms for research , and plan the 

development of methodologies in a field . Finally, based on the analysis of the algorithm 

co -occurrence network presented in this paper, future work could further reveal the 

relationships and similarities between algorithms, potent ially aiding the development of 

algorithm recommendation and retrieval services. 

# 2. Related work 

This article focuses on a network comprised of the algorithms mentioned in academic 

papers. In this section, we introduce three aspects of related work : algorithms mentioned 4

in academic papers , academic influence evaluation, and the various networks of knowledge 

entities. 

2.1 Algorithm s mentioned in academic papers 

The algorithms mentioned in academic papers are currently identified to conduct further 

research. Relevant studies can be classified into algorithm metadata research and algorithm 

entity research , according to the different expressions of algorithms. 

Algorithm metadata refers to algorithm -related pseudo -code an d algorithm procedures. 

For algorithms represented by pseudo -code, textual metadata include s their captions and 

reference sentences ; for algorithms described by algorithm procedures, their textual 

metadata include s indication sentences (Tuarob, 2014) . Safder et al . conducted a series of 

investigation s into algorithm metadata ; specifically, they tried various methods of 

identify ing algorithm metadata in academic papers, including a rule -based method (Bhatia 

et al. , 2011) , a combined rule -based and machine learning method (Tuarob et al ., 2013 a),

and a deep learning method (Safder et al. , 2020) . The cited function of algorithm metadata 

was further analyzed (Tuarob et al ., 2019; Tuarob et al ., 2013 b). Subsequently, they built 

a platform for algorithm searching, called AlgorithmSeer , which provide s algorithm 

content for users by calculating the similarity between the algorithm metadata and the 

search ed terms (Carman, 2013; Tuarob et al. , 2014, 2016) .

An algorithm entity is a noun or no un phrase that refers to an algorithm in academic 

papers. Algorithm entit y research focuses on algorithm entity recognition and influence 

evaluation. Wang and Zhang (2018) built a dictionary of the top ten data mining algorithms ,

obtained the context mentioning the ten algorithms , and then used the frequency, location, 

and task solved by the algorithm to evaluate the influence of data mining algorithms. On 

this basis, they summarized the sentence pattern for mentioning the data mining algorithms, 

and used this approach to identify other types of method entities from sentences (Wang and 

Zhang, 2019) . Given that the top -ten data mining algorithms cannot reveal the algorithm 

landscape in a particular domain , Wang and Zhang (2020) extended the research object to 

the algorithm entities in the NLP domain from 1979 to 2015 , and evaluated the academic 

influence of the algorithm via the number of articles and the duration of the mention. Ding 

et al . (2019) further analyzed the citation sentences of algorithm entities , and discussed the 

evoluti on of algorithm citation sentences over time, where algorithm entities were analyzed 

as individual objects . Zha et al . (2019) further considered the relations hips between 

algorithms , and extracted a comparative algor ithm list from academic papers. Next, they 

built the roadmap of the compared algorithms according to the time they were mentioned.     

> 2.2 Academic influence evaluation on knowledge entities

Distinct from social influence, academic influence emphasizes the insights and cognitive 

impacts brought to researchers when the evaluated subject circulates within the academic, 

rather than the social domain. Academic influence engages the audience, prompting their 

attention and contemplation, altering th eir intellectual thinking and actions, and inspiring 

academic innovation. 

The evaluation of academic influence on knowledge entities traditionally relies on 

qualitative assessments, often conducted through peer review. Scholars typically establish 

an asses sment system or framework and then collect evaluation results for specific entities 

using expert assessments, interviews, questionnaires, etc . A notable representative work is 5

the selection of the top 10 data mining algorithms (Wu et al., 2018) . Similarly, the Stack 

Overflow 2023 Global Developer Report invited 90,000 IT professionals to participate in 

a survey and identify the world ’s most popular technologies, web frameworks, and 

databases (Stack Overflow, 202 3). The TIOBE index, calculated based on the number of 

votes from experienced internet programmers, cour ses, and third -party vendors, ranks the 

popularity of different programming languages (TIOBE -index, 2023) . These rankings offer 

references for scholars, but they require a considerable workforce and are un suitable for 

frequent, long -term implementation. 

Scholars proposed various quantitative indicators to compensate for the shortcomings of 

qualitative evaluation method s. Citation count is the most commonly used metric for 

measuring academic influence (He et al., 2019) . Belter and I (2014) focused on three 

datasets in the field of oceanography, studying the impact of dataset s based on citation 

count. With the availability of full -text data, the num ber of mentions and usage of 

knowledge entities in full text s are used to assess their influence. Pan et al. (2015) used a 

bootstrapped learning method to extract software entities automatically and assessed their 

influence based on citation count, usage count, and mention count . They further compared 

the academic i mpact of different categories of software entities (Pan et al., 2016) and 

analyzed the influence diffusion trends of software entities at the levels of literature, 

journals, and fields (Pan et al., 2018) . Furthermore , Ma and Zhang (2017) used total 

mentions and average mentions to assess the academic influence of software entities, 

ident ifying typical roles of software in PLOS One. In addition to various mention metrics, 

altermetric s indicator s have also been used to measure the influence of knowledge entities 

(Li and Xu, 2017) . Thelwall and Kousha (2016) considered download counts of open -

source software to be the assessment metric of software value , which Priem and Piwowar 

then used to initiate the Depsy project ( “Depsy:valuing the software that powers science” ,

2023 ), aiming to analyze the influence of software in the open -source commun ity by 

download counts and citation counts. Some scholars attempted to combine other attributes 

with frequency for influence analysis. Tuarob et al. explored the functions mentioned of 

algorithmic entities in papers (Teufel, 2006; Tuarob et al., 2019; Tuarob, Mitra, et al., 2013) ,

while Yoon et al. , (2019) anal yzed the sources of dataset influence. Li et al. (2020) 

analyzed position and citation circumstance s of datasets in full -text papers for a

comprehensive assessment of their academic influence .

2. 3 Evolution of knowledge entit y networks 

In 2003, Ding et al . (2013) proposed entity metrics in which the individual knowledge units 

encapsulated as entities in scientific papers can be connected to mine knowledge transfer 

an d facilitate knowledge discovery. Network analysis is a standard method for processing 

connected data , which is also used to construct knowledge entity networks and study the ir 

structure and evolution mechanism. According to the objects analyzed, knowledge entity 

networks can be divided into three levels: macro -level entity networks, including journal 

networks (Barnett et al. , 2011) , author networks (Kumar, 2015) , and reference networks 

(Chen and Kuljis, 2003) ; meso -level entity networks, including keyword networks 

(Radhakrishnan et al. , 2017) ; and micro -level entity networ ks, including dataset networks 

(Yu et al. , 2015) , method networks (Li and Yan, 2018) .6

Knowledge networks facilit ate observing the scientific world based on knowledge unit 

connections and ha ve contributed to research into discipline development, knowledge flow, 

and knowledge discovery (Huang et al. , 2021) . Using network centrality to describe the 

node distribution, researchers can understand whether the cooperation between authors 

(Kumar, 2019) , countries (Kark et al. , 2009) , or institutions (Han et al. , 2014) is close, and 

whether there is knowledge linkage and exchange between different disciplines or fie lds 

(Song et al. , 2023) . Network attributes also bring new ideas to traditional frequency -based 

entity evaluation. Ding et al . (2009) ranked the importance of scholars in a co -citation 

network based on the PageRank algorithm. Fiala (2012) defined the co -authorship network 

of the most prominent computer scientists. The same method was also used to identify key 

journals (Zhang et al. , 2009) and topics (Takeda and Kajikawa, 2008) and optimize 

knowledge retrieval and recommendation .

Some scholars considered the dynamic changes of networks that determine the network’s 

final structure and topological properties (Abbasi et al ., 2012 ; Dorogovtsev & Mendes, 

2002) . Liu and Xia (2015) analyzed the development of cooperation between 

interdisciplinary fields . Liu and Guan (2015) further explored the influence of collaborative 

capacity, network status position, and cohesion on the growth and diversity of cooperative 

networks. Zheng et al . (2017) focused on the community in the network ; they measured 

the acade mic influence of a community through the authors ’ influence. In addition to a 

single network, multiple networks were also constructed to discuss the relationship 

between their evolution ary trends. Singh et al .（2020) analyzed the evolution of a citation 

network and a co -author network to analyze the relationship between the distance in the 

co -author network and the citation pattern in the citation network. 

Although network analysis has been widely used in research into knowledge e ntities, the 

research objects have generally been macro -level and meso -level knowledge entities , such 

as journals, papers, scholars, and keywords. A small number of micro -knowledge entity 

networks, such as software networks, only explain the influence of nodes and communit ies 

in static networks. As a new research object in knowledge entity analysis, algorithm entities 

have not yet benefited from network analysis . Therefore, we built a paper -level co -

occurrence network of algorithms based on the full text of papers , and analyze d the 

academic influence based on the network features .

# 3. Methodology 

We d emonstrate d the process of extracting algorithm entities from academic papers and 

leveraging their co -occurrences to create diverse networks. We then proceed ed to conduct 

evaluations of the impact of these algorithmic nodes within these networks. 

3.1 Data collection 

The conference proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational 

Linguistics (ACL ) conference were selected for algorithm identification . We chose these 

papers because scholars in the NLP field generally publish new research as conference 

articles , and algorithm s mentioned in the ACL conference are more representative since 

ACL is one of the top NLP meetings . Additionally, the ACL conferen ce is held annually 

and provides conference papers from its inception to the present day, allowing us to 

understand the historical development of NLP research and methods. 7

We use d deep learning methods to identify algorithms, and the collected data c ould be 

classified into a raw corpus and a training corpus. Wang and Zhang (2020) manually 

annotated the algorithm entities mentioned in the full text of ACL conference papers from 

1979 to 2015 , and obtained sentences mentioning algorithms in the full text of papers . We 

preprocessed their algorithm sentences from each paper and collected 65,000 sentences in 

4, 604 p apers as our training corpus. 

ACL conference papers published from 2016 to 2020 were chosen as the raw corpus for 

the extraction of new algorithm entities , and these papers in PDF format were downloaded 

from the ACL Anthology website ( https://aclanthology.org/venues/acl/). We invited five 

annotators to copy the PDF documents manually , then saved the content as TXT documents, 

and added the tag for each paper’s title, authors, section, and paragraph . Finally, we 

obtained 2,79 3 papers in TXT format as the raw corpus. 

3.2 Extraction of a lgorithm entities from NLP papers 

As shown in Figure 1, identifying algorithm entities from the full -text con tent of articles is 

regarded as a named entity recognition (NER) task. We began by training various models 

and recognizing candidate entities from the raw corpus. The new algorithm entities were 

selected from candidate entities and combined with the existi ng entities in the training 

corpus to compile the algorithm dictionary. Finally, we reconfirm ed the articles that 

mention each algorithm by dictionary matching, because the extraction model m ight miss 

an algorithm in a paper, but the algorithm could be found again by dictionary matching. 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 1. Flow chart of the process of identif ying algorithm entities in paper s  

> Training corpus
> (1979 -2015)
> Dictionary of
> algorithms
> ((1979 -2020)
> Candidate
> entities
> Algorithm list in each article
> Best model
> Model 1
> Full -text content of
> articles ( 2016 -2020)
> Model 2
> Model n
> Uncertain
> entities
> Algorithm entities
> (2016 -2020) Algorithm entities
> (1979 -2015)
> Full -text content of article s
> (1979 -2020)
> Model training
> Model
> prediction
> Manual
> annotation
> Expert review
> Entity
> normalization
> Entity dictionary
> matching
> Algorithm
> entities 8

3.2.1 Extracti on of candidate algorithm entities 

The extraction of method entities from academic papers, such as algorithm entities, can be 

regarded as a named entity identification (NER) task (Hou et al. , 2022) . Three popular deep 

learning models were chosen and compared for the preliminary extraction, namely 

BiLSTM+CRF (Panchendrarajan and Amaresan, 2018) , BERT+CRF (Souza et al. , 2020) ,

BERT+BiLSTM + CRF (Dai et al ., 2019) . The training corpus consist ed of 65 ,000 

sentences, and each was annotated with the algorithm entities that appear ed in that sentence. 

We divided the corpus into train -dev -test dataset s by a 70% -15% -15% ratio and performed 

Hyper -parameter tuning for three extraction models . We used a BERT -base pre -trained 

language model, which consists of 12 layers, 768 hidden size, and 12 attention heads. 

Hyper -parameter tuning was conducted for each model. The setting of the main hyper -

parameters can be seen in Table 1, and the other hyper -parameters followed by Devlin et 

al . (2019) and Dai et al . (2019) .  

> Table 1.Hyper -parameter setting

Source(s): Table by authors        

> Hyper -parameter Range
> Batch size 8, 16, 32
> Learning rate (with linear scheduling) 2e -5, 3e -5, 5e -5
> LSTM layers 1, 2
> LSTM unit 256, 512, 1024
> Dropout 0.1
> Max epochs 50

Table 2 presents the performance of each model where the BERT+BiLSTM+CRF got 

the highest F1 score . Thus, we chose the BERT+BiLSTM+CRF model to predict candidate 

algorithm entit ies . From 472,470 sentences in 2,79 3 full -text publications, we obtained 

300,839 sentences in 2,719 papers that contained at least one candidate algorithm entity. 

Table 2. Performance of the three extraction models 

Source(s): Table by authors              

> Model Precision Recall F1value
> BiLSTM+CRF 0.872 0.901 0.8862
> BERT+CRF 0.953 0.962 0.9574
> BERT+BiLSTM+CRF 0.970 0.959 0.9642

3.2.2 Identif ication of the algorithm entities 

We manually labeled the candidate entities to identify the exact algorithm entities. First, 

we removed 16,108 candidate words that appeared in only one sentence. From the 

remaining 13,711 candidate words, we randomly selected 10% (1,371 words) to test the 9

feasibility of manual labeling. A Ph.D. candidate and graduate students were invited to 

independently label these words and identify algorithm entities by the following rules :

(1) For a well -known algorithm, or if all of the authors of the ACL papers called the 

words an “algorithm ,” it was directly labeled as an “algorithm ,” such as support vector 

machines. 

(2) For new words created by ACL authors , the labeler need ed to read the definition in 

the original text and determine whether it wa s an algorithm. 

(3) For a noun that the author did not define in the paper, for example, the Gibbs 

sampling method, the annotator searched for the noun in external knowledge bases —

Wikipedia, Google Scholar, other academic papers, or monographs —and determined 

whether it was an algorithm. 

(4) The remaining words were marked as “uncertain words ” and require d further 

judgment. 

The interrater reliability (IRR) between the two labelers was 0.76 (Cohen’s kappa 

coefficient) , indi cating that one labeler annotating all papers was sufficient ly reliab le .

Therefore, the Ph.D. student annotated the remaining words , and obtained 1,576 algorithm 

entities and 622 uncertain entities .

For the uncertain entities, a professor familiar with NLP reviewed them and recognized 

412 words as algorithm entities. In summary, we obtained 1,988 independent algorithm 

enti ties from 2,719 academic papers, which were then merge d with algorithm entities in 

the training corpus. After deleting duplicate records, we collected 3,841 algorithm entities 

from all ACL papers and assigned them individual ID s.

3.2. 3 Normaliz ation of algorithm names 

Authors are creative when mention ing algorithms in their paper s. First, an algorithm could 

be mentioned in as many as a dozen forms. For example, “support vector machine” is also 

called “SVM,” “SVMs,” “support vector machines,” “support -vector machine,” or 

“support -vector machines.” We group ed and normalize d all names of an algorithm to 

prevent them from being multiple -counted by different name s. Second, a n entity word may 

also represent different algorithms . For example, “the BP algorithm ” can represent either 

the “back -propagation ” algorithm or the “belief propagation ” algorithm. Third, an entity 

word may denote algorithms and some other common nouns. For example, “EM ” can 

represent either the EM algorithm or the M entity (e 1, e1, …, em). 

For the first problem, we categorize d all the algorithm words into two classes, full -name 

words , and acronyms, based on word length and manual review. For full -name words, we 

used the edit distance algorithm to assess the similarity between different names. If the 

similarity exceeded 95%, we considered them references to the same algorithm. We then 

manually reviewed these sets and chose the longest word as the standard name for the 

algorithm. A full -name dictionary containing 1,632 groups with the standard name and 

alias was compiled. 

Abbrevia tions cause the other two problems. We extract ed the original sentence 

mentioning the acronym and f oun d the full -name words that appear ed in the same sentence .

We first determine d whether these full -name s and acronyms represent ed the same 

algorithm by two methods: firstly, the full -name word appeared in brackets after the 

acronym or vice versa , and secondly, the full -name words had the same combination of 

initial letters as the acronyms, and then we conduct ed a round of manual review. If the rule -

based appr oach failed to identify full -name , matching was done by manually checking the 10 

original text . A n acronym dictionary was constructed in which the standard name 

corresponding to each acronym we re categorized into groups. 

3.2.4 Matching a lgorithm entities in each paper 

We use d a dictionary -based matching method to ensure the algorithm entity in each article 

by the full -name and acronym dictionary . When a full name appeared in a paper , we use d

the ir ID to replace the original name because there was no ambiguity. However, for 

abbreviations, we followed a different process :

(1) Using the abbreviation dictiona ry , we first identified the article s in which the 

abbreviation and the full name appear ed simul taneously. By checking which full name 

appeared with the abbreviation, the abbreviation in the original sentence could be replaced 

with the ID of the full name .

(2) For the remaining articles containing abbreviations but not full name s, if the 

acronym s were mentioned in more than two sentences, w e manually assessed whether the 

abbreviations represented algorithms and their full name . Otherwise, we ignored the 

abbreviations with low frequency. 

Finally , after de -duplication, we extracted the algor ithm IDs in each article and obtained 

the algorithm entity list that appeared in each paper .

3.3 Analysis of algorithm influence based on co -occurrence network 

(1) Algorithm co -occurrence network construction 

The algorithm co -occurrence network was constructed based on co -occurring algorithm 

pairs in the same article. Each algorithm was considered as a node, and an edge was created 

between two nodes if they appeared in the same paper. We use d the number of articles 

mentioning two algorithms to weigh the edges. The total number of ACL papers published 

each year was utilized to normalize the number of articles mentioning algorithms pair, and 

then the sum of normalized results each year was regarded as the edge weight. 

Based on the above strategy , we con structed three kinds of networks . T he first was the 

overall algorithm co -occurrence network , built based on the co -occurrence in all ACL 

papers. The second was the cumulative network s, and they were constructed by collecting 

the co -occurr ing algorithm pair s from 1979 to each year. The th ird one was the annual 

network . We extracted the co -mentioned pairs from papers published each year and built 

the annual networks. 

(2) The influ ence of algorithm s based on the co -occurrence network 

The existing research has demonstrated that metrics based on network centrality are 

effective in analyzing influence (Ding et al ., 2009) . With the availability of full -text 

academic pa per data, networks built on papers, keywords in papers, and knowledge entities 

have gradually emerged , and various centralit ies are also used to uncover important 

knowledge entities (Li and Yan, 2018) , essential keywords (Lozano et al. , 2019) , core 

terms (Grames et al. , 2019) , and representative research topics (Yuan et al. , 2022) .

Therefore, after demonstrating that algorithm networks are consistent with the 

characteristics of complex networks, this study also us ed network centrality as the metric 

and analyze d the academic influence of algorithm entities from various perspectives. 

Regarding the selection of cent rality metrics, we first considered some commonly used 

classic indicators, which have been employed in many studies for evaluating nodes such as 

papers, entities, and keywords in networks (Kim et al., 2014; Kumar and Srivastava, 2021; 11 

Li and Yan, 2018; Ortega, 2021) . At the same time, we also chose newly pro posed 

indicators to maintain the completeness of our metric framework . The selected centralities 

assessed the influence from four aspects : popularity in the field, control within the group, 

central position within the group, and the balance of its influenc e. The specific 

interpretations of each indicator are as follows. 

Popularity : We use d Degree Centrality (DC) from the complex network to represent 

the popularity of individual algorithms within a group. As the simplest and most direct 

indicator of importance, the degree centrality of a node can be measured by the number of 

neighbors , which reflects the popularity and activity of the node (Freeman, 1979) . The 

higher the degree centrality of an algorithm, the more relationships and stronger cohesion 

it has. 

Control : The control of the individual algorithm in the group wa s represented by 

Betweenness centrality (BC), which wa s calculated by the portion of the number of shortest 

paths that pass through the given node (Brandes, 2001) . Unlike degree centrality, BC 

measures not the direct connections that the node has in the population, but the ability to 

mediate among nodes that are not directly linked between them (Freeman, 1980) . Therefore, 

the BC indicates “the potential of a point for control of communication” (Freeman, 1977) .

The higher the BC of an algorithm, the better its ability to connect different modules 

throughout the network, since members in the middle of a pathway have a more significant 

interpersonal influence on members at both ends of the path (Otte and Rousseau 2002) .

Central position : Closeness centrality (CC) (Dangalchev, 2006) wa s used to reflect the 

centrality or central position of algorithm nodes within a group. CC finds the shortest path 

between each node first , then assigns a score to each node according to the sum of path 

length . The CC is a proxy for the independence and efficiency of communicating with other 

nodes ; therefore, it helps identify strategically positioned nodes within the network (Abbasi 

et al. , 2012) . For an algorithm , the higher its closenes s, the closer it is to other algorithms ,

and the geometric center in the network. Therefore , the algorithm can most efficiently 

obtain and disseminate information through the network .

Balance : we used the Adjacency information entropy (AC) (Xu et al. , 2020) to measure 

the balance of the algorithm ’s impact on the network. The AC calculate d the degree of 

node V (Kv) and the degree of all neighbor nodes of one node connected to V (Aj), and the 

entropy of proportion of Kv in Aj represented the influence of V in the network. The larger 

AC means the more balanced degree of node V in the social circl e of all its neighbor nodes ,

and does not make up an extreme position in one neighbor ’s social circle. 

# 4. Result s

In this chapter, we offer comprehensive responses to the research question posed in the 

previous section. Our results begin by presenting the properties of the overall network, 

which is constructed based on the co -occurrence of all the algorithms. Subseque ntly, we 

provide the influence of algorithms based on different networks. Finally, we delve into the 

evolution of impact concerning individual algorithms within the network, supported by an 

in -depth analysis of the contributing factors to these trends. 12 

4.1 Overview of algorithm co -occurrence networks 

We answer ed the first research question in section 4.1 . From the 7, 39 7 papers, we extracted 

1,632 algorithm entities, among which 6,488 papers (87. 71 %) mentioned at least one 

algorithm in the main text. We constructed the overall co -occurrence network of all 

algorithms. T he average clustering coefficient, the relative size of the giant component, 

and the average shortest path of the network are 82.5%, 99.2%, and 2.225, respectively ,

indicating a small world of algorithms in the NLP domain. Next, we analyzed the degree 

distribution in the network , where degree represents the number of algorithms that are 

mentioned together with the target node. The degree distribution, P(K), is the probability 

that a randomly selected algorithm node has K edges. As illustrated in Figure 2, t he degree 

distribution displays a power -law tail, known as the scale -free network . This observation 

signifies the existence of an importance gap or wealth gap between algorithms, and a small 

number of nodes are involved in most of the links in the network. 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

> Figure 2. Degree distribution of the co -occurrence network of algorithms

Based on the findings above, we observe that algorithm co -occurrence networks share 

similarities with other complex networks, such as scholarly collaboration networks and 

actor network s (Albert and Barabási, 2000) . They exhibit notably short distances between 

nodes, significant clustering coefficients, and a degree distribution that resembles a power -

law. Consequently, we posit that the metrics traditionally employed to gauge node 

importance in complex networks can also be applied to assess the significance of 

algorithms within algorithm co -occurrence networks. 

Furthermore, we analyze d how the current algorithm co -occurrence netw ork was formed 

and what evolution it underwent . Specifically , we drew 41 cumulative co -occurrence 

networks based on the co -mentions of the algorithm in papers from 1979 through each year .

Figure 3 shows the average degree of all nodes in each network, a metric that characterize s

the network’s interconnectedness. The rising average degree signifies the strengthening 

interconnections among algorithms, with the year 2001 marking a significan t turning point 

in growth rates. 

> P (k)
> k13

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 3. The a verage degree of cumulative algorithm co -occurrence network 

The average length of the shortest path between each node pair is called the average 

separation. In Figure 4, the average separation experienced a substantial increase, peaking 

in 1994, followed by a steady decrease. This pattern suggests that the paths between 

algorithm pairs became longer as new algorithms continued to enter the network. After 

1994, a more closely connected “small world” was gradually formed . Despite the 

expansion in network size and the number of algorithm nodes, the distance between 

algorithm pairs decreased, leading to im proved communication efficiency. 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 4. Average s eparation distribution of the cumulative algorithm co -

occurrence network by year 

The clustering coefficient reflects the degree of connection between all neighbor nodes 

of a focal node . Figure 5 illustrates the changes in the average clustering coefficient of the 

cumulative network , and data from 1979 and 1980 are excluded since the value is zero. 

From 1981 to 1998, the clustering coefficient showed pronounced fluctuations, changing 

approximately every five years. After reaching a trough in 1998, the clustering coefficient 

rose steadily , experienced a flat period between 2008 and 2012 , and rose agai n until the 

last year. These fluctuations in the early network highlight its unstable structure, but the 

consistent trend aligns with the evolution of the average separation, demonstrating the 

network ’s increased connectivity in recent years. 14 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 5. The c lustering coefficient of the cumulative algorithm co -occurrence 

network by year 

Figure 6 presents the relative size of the giant component in each cumulative network. 

The relative size increased markedly in the first five years, and after a brief decline from 

1983 to 1986, it rose sharply again until 1993 . From 1993 -2006, the relative size gradually 

exceeded 95%. It can be speculated that the topology of the algorithm network stabilized 

after 2006 , and alm ost all algorithms appeared in the giant component. 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 6. The r elative size of the giant component in the cumulative algorithm co -

occurrence network by year 

The above results show that the close correlation between algorithms in the field of NLP 

did not happen overnight. In the first 20 years, the structure of co -occurring networks 

formed between algorithms was not tight. After almost 20 years of turbulence, the 

algorithm network entered a period of stability and formed a small world. 

4.2 The inf luence of algorithm based on the co -occurrence network 

In section 4.2 , we answer ed the second research question. Specifically, we explored the 

academic influence of each algorithm in the overall algorithm network and each year ’s

algorithm network separatel y to see if there are differences in the roles of algorithms in the 

network.  

> (1) Algorithm swith high influence in overall co -occurrence network

We conducted an in -depth analysis of the overall co -occurrence network to derive multiple 

centrality measures encompassing popularity, control, central position, and balance , for 

each algorithms. For a more intuitive comparison of the different algorithms, we refer to 

the work of Wang and Zhang (2020) and categorize the algorithms into different type s, 

including Classification algorithm, Clustering algorithm, Dimension reduction algorithm, 15 

Gramar, Integrated learning algo rithm, Link analysis algorithms, Metric algorithm, Neural 

networks, Optimization algorithm, Probabilistic graphical models, Regression algorithm, 

Search algorithm, Unique algorithms in NLP domain. We ranked the algorithms in the same 

category according to their academic impact scores in different dimensions . Table 3 

presents the top five algorithms in each algorithm type, but we only show the results of 

algorithms in four categories because of the limited space .

Overall , different indicators do not yield the same results in ranking the influence of 

algorithms, regardless of the algorithm category . Therefore, it is valuable to measure the 

popularity, control, central position, and balance of individual algorithms in the community 

by different network centralit ies , respectively. Comparing the algorithms that rank high on 

different dimensions of influence , it can be found that the ranking results of “control” are 

different , where algorithms that do not appear in other lists appeared in the top li st of BC, 

for example, word2vec, random walk , and v iterbi algorithm . Furthermore, the algorithms 

with the highest scores for all indicator s in different categories point to the same algorithm, 

and we try to analyze why the se best -performing algorithms achieve the highest scores. 

Among different neural network models , Long Short -Term Memory (LSTM) emerged 

as the algorithm with the highest influence . As a special recurrent neural network (RNN) 

that introduced the “gating mechanism”, LSTM is widely regarded as one of the most 

successful RNN models and has achieved state -of -the -art results on various sequence 

modeling tasks. LSTM is often co -mentioned with similar algorithms related to the “gating 

mechanism” (Sahu and Anand, 2016) , frequently used with the probabilistic graphical 

model, namely, CRF, to ensure accurate sequence ordering in output, and compared or 

combined wit h grammatical algorithms (Liu et al., 2018; Stanoj ević and Steedman, 2020) .

Consequently, LSTM has more neighboring algorithms and is closely related to other 

algorithms. At the same time, LSTM has the most balanced influence over its neighbors, 

i.e., it doesn’t have an extraordinarily large or small i mpact over just one of them. 

Table 3. The top -5 algorithms with high influence based on each network indicators 

Source(s): Table by authors                                 

> Type Rank Popularity Control Central
> position Balance
> Classificatio
> n algorithm
> 1Support vector
> machine
> Support vector
> machine
> Support vector
> machine
> Support vector
> machine
> 2Maximum
> entropy
> Maximum
> entropy
> Maximum
> entropy
> Maximum
> entropy
> 3Gibbs sampling Decision tree Decision tree Gibbs sampling
> 4Decision tree Gibbs sampling Naive bayes Decision tree
> 5Naive bayes Naive bayes Gibbs sampling Naive bayes
> Neural
> networks
> 1Long short -term
> memory
> Long short -term
> memory
> Long short -term
> memory
> Long short -term
> memory
> 2Recurrent neural
> network
> Recurrent neural
> network
> Recurrent neural
> network
> Recurrent neural
> network
> 3Bi -LSTM Glove Bi -LSTM Glove
> 4Glove Bi -LSTM Glove Bi -LSTM
> 5Convolutional
> neural network Word2vec Convolutional
> neural network
> Convolutional
> neural network

16     

> Optimization
> algorithm
> 1Adaptive
> moment
> Adaptive
> moment
> Adaptive
> moment
> Adaptive
> moment
> 2Stochastic
> gradient descent
> Dynamic
> programming
> Stochastic
> gradient descent
> Stochastic
> gradient descent
> 3Dynamic
> programming
> Stochastic
> gradient descent
> Dynamic
> programming
> Dynamic
> programming
> 4

Expectation 

maximization 

Expectation 

maximization 

> Maximum
> likelihood
> estimation

Expectation 

maximization 

> 5
> Maximum
> likelihood
> estimation

Viterbi 

algorithm 

Expectation 

maximization          

> Maximum
> likelihood
> estimation
> Probabilistic
> graphical
> models
> 1Conditional
> random field
> Conditional
> random field
> Conditional
> random field
> Conditional
> random field
> 2Hidden markov
> model
> Hidden markov
> model
> Hidden markov
> model
> Hidden markov
> model
> 3Latent dirichlet
> allocation
> Latent dirichlet
> allocation
> Latent dirichlet
> allocation
> Probabilistic
> latent semantic
> analysis
> 4
> Probabilistic
> latent semantic
> analysis
> Random walk
> Probabilistic
> latent semantic
> analysis
> Latent dirichlet
> allocation
> 5Baysian network Baysian network Baysian network Baysian network

The algorithm that takes on the most influential in classification algorithms is the support 

vector machine (SVM). As described in the “Top 10 algorithms in data mining” (Wu et al., 

2008) , the SVM algorithm has a solid theoretical foundation. It is one of the most stable 

and accurate algorithms among all well -known algorithms. Compared with other 

contempora ries, SVM exhibits exceptional generalization capabilities, proficiently tackling 

classification and regression challenges involving high -dimensional features, and it was 

regarded as the best algorithm among traditional machine learning algorithms. It can be 

speculated that in academic papers, SVM not only needs to be compared with other 

statistical machine learning classification algorithms, e.g., naive bayes, decision tree, but 

also needs to be used as a baseline model to validate the superiority of emerg ing deep 

learning algorithms, e.g., BERT, on classification tasks. Therefore, SVM can have a 

multitude of co -mentioned neighboring nodes, and a higher betweens and a core position 

as a transitional algorithm from statistical machine learning algorithms to deep learning 

algorithms. 

The algorithms that rank high in the other categories also possess the advantages that 

LSTM and SVM have within their respective types. The above discussion indicates that 

when we consider the interconnections among algorithms and examine their popularity, 

control, central position, and balance within the entire community, algorithms that score 

highly across multiple indicators share some common characteristics. They not only have 

a history but also have not been eliminated by hist ory, allowing them time to accumulate 

popularity. Their emergence in the field of NLP often coincides with the junction of 

different eras, enabling them to compare with old and new algorithms and thus act as a 

bridge controlling the community’s connections . These algorithms also possess superior 

performance and high versatility across various tasks, which places them at the core of the 

community and endows them with a more balanced academic influence. 17 

(2) Algorithm with high influence in annual co -occurren ce network 

Based on the annual co -occurrence network, we obtained the influence of the algorithm 

each year by differen t centrality. Table 4 shows the most important algorithms in the 

network each year . Regardless of the era, algorithms that score the highest on various 

indicators are generally the same, indicating that when an algorithm acquires the most 

neighboring nodes in the network, it also becomes the central hub of the entire network, 

serving as a bridge for communication among different algorithms. During the first 14 

years, grammatical algorithms were prominent in the field. Three of the most vital grammar 

class algorithms, ATN, CFG, TAG, have the same function, but ATN and TAG are 

improved based on CFG and have more powerful performance, so the three always 

alternate in the grammar era as the most critical nodes in the network. From 1994, statistical 

machine learning algorithms like the hidden markov model (HMM) gained the highest 

compromise centr ality, yet context -free grammar (CFG) remained in the top position. 

Table 4. Algorithms with the highest influence each year based on network 

indicators 

Source(s): Table by authors  

> Year

Popularity Control Central position Balance                                                                                                                                 

> 1979 ATN ATN ATN discrimination network
> 1980 ATN ATN ATN greedy regression
> 1981 ATN ATN ATN left corner
> 1982 ATN ATN ATN ATN
> 1983 CFG CFG CFG CFG
> 1984 LFG ATN LFG DCG
> 1985 CFG ATN CFG CFG
> 1986 CFG GPSG GPSG GPSG
> 1987 CFG CFG CFG CFG
> 1988 TAG CFG CFG TAG
> 1989 TAG DCG DP TAG
> 1990 CFG CFG CFG CFG
> 1991 CFG CFG CFG CFG
> 1992 TAG TAG TAG CFG
> 1993 CFG CFG CFG CFG
> 1994 CFG HMM DCG left corner
> 1995 CFG MLE MLE CFG
> 1996 CFG DP CFG CFG
> 1997 MLE MLE decision tree MLE
> 1998 DP DP HMM HMM
> 1999 DP DP DP DP
> 2000 HMM MLE HMM MLE
> 2001 MaxEnt MaxEnt MaxEnt MaxEnt
> 2002 MaxEnt decision tree MaxEnt MaxEnt
> 2003 MaxEnt CFG MaxEnt MaxEnt
> 2004 SVM SVM HMM SVM
> 2005 MaxEnt SVM MaxEnt MaxEnt
> 2006 MaxEnt SVM MaxEnt MaxEnt
> 2007 MaxEnt SVM MaxEnt MaxEnt
> 2008 SVM SVM SVM SVM
> 2009 SVM SVM SVM SVM
> 2010 SVM SVM SVM SVM

18 

2011 SVM SVM SVM SVM 

2012 SVM SVM SVM SVM 

2013 SVM SVM SVM SVM 

2014 SVM SVM SVM SVM 

2015 SVM SVM SVM SVM 

2016 RNN word2vec RNN word2vec 

2017 LSTM LSTM LSTM LSTM 

2018 LSTM LSTM LSTM LSTM 

2019 LSTM LSTM LSTM LSTM 

2020 BERT BERT BERT BERT   

> Note :Abbreviation in the table. ATN (augmented transition network); BERT (bidirectional encoder representations from transformer);
> CFG (context free grammar); DP (dynamic programming); GPSG (generalized phrase structure grammar); HMM (hidden markov
> model); LFG (lexical functional grammar); LSTM (long short term memory); MaxEnt(maximum entropy); MLE (maximum likelihood
> estimation); SVM (support vector machine); TAG (tree adjoining grammar ); R NN(recurrent neural network).

From 1997 to 2015, statistical machine learning algorithms continued to dominate, with 

SVM, HMM, and MaxEnt being the most representative. Indeed, an iterative relationship 

exists among these three algorithms. HMM is employed for large -scale real -text processing 

but cannot consider contextual features during the feature selection process. The emergence 

of MaxEnt effectively compensates for this deficiency, as MaxEnt can utilize arbitrarily 

complex features. Simultaneously, MaxE nt can tag individual words but does not take 

advantage of the relationships between tokens, but HMM excels in establishing markov 

correlations between tokens. Consequently, these two algorithms function independently 

and can be synergistically combined to form a maximum entropy markov model (MEMM). 

In contrast to other algorithms, SVM lies in its ability to effectively address classification 

and regression problems involving high -dimensional features, a challenge that proves 

formidable for many other algor ithms. 2016 was the year when the algorithm network 

transitioned from traditional machine learning to deep learning. With RNN gaining the 

biggest influence in the network, the most representative RNN, namely LSTM, has become 

the algorithm with the most nei ghbors, the highest influence on neighbors, and the most 

core position in the network. However, the monopoly of LSTM was broken in 2020, and 

BERT, proposed less than two years ago, soon became a star in the algorithm network, 

indicating that the pre -traini ng model is gradually replacing the traditional neural network 

model. 

4.3 The evolution of algorithms influence based on the co -occurrence network 

We answered the third research question in section 4.3 . Based on the above results, we 

identif ied three eras in developing the NLP field. We selected the most representative 

algorithms that obtained the highest influence within their category of each period and 

analyzed the evolution of different types of academic influence. 

(1) The influence evolution of context -free grammar 

CFG was selected as a representative of grammar algorithms . As shown in Figures 7(a) 

and 7(b) , CFG had a high influence from 1979 to 1998, consistently ranking in the top ten 

in terms of the number of neighbors or its core position in the network , and scores of each 

influence exceeding 0.5 were at the high level of its entire life cycle. As early as the 1960s, 

Chomsky proposed CFG, whic h wa s powerful enough to express the grammatical patterns 

of most programming languages (K adlec , 2008) . After more than ten years of development, 

CFG gained a high reputation in the algorithm community due to the small number of 19 

algorithms in the early years . However, CFG ’s simplicity made it challenging to describe 

languages with complex features. Consequently, scholars put forward various constraints 

to optimize CFG , including augmented transition network ( ATN ), tree adjoining grammar ,

and functional unification grammar (FUG ). Generally, between 1979 an d 1998, CFG can 

be regarded as the originator of grammatical algorithms, spawning many new algorithms, 

and be ing compared with other grammar , which brought it many algorithm neighbors and 

a central position. 

After 1998, the influence of CFG experienced slight fluctuations and then entered a 

recession period in the ranking. The period can be divided into two stages: 2003 -2012 and 

2013 -2020, with the latter stage experiencing a stronger downward trend than the f ormer. 

Especially between 2003 and 2007, the NLP field shifted from rule -based rationalism to 

statistics -based empiricism. Grammatical algorithms such as CFG were no longer suitable 

for handling massive and complex natural languages. The rise of machine le arning and 

deep learning algorithms led to a sharp decrease in the influence of CFG, and the 

elimination of its related algorithms. Consequently, its influence continued to decline, with 

the number and importance of nodes connected to it constantly decreas ing. 

(a) The influence score of CFG based on different centralit ies each yea r

(b) The influence ranking of CFG based on different centralit ies each year 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 7. The influence evolution of context -free grammar 

(2) The influence evolution of support vector machine 

From the statistical machine learning algorithms, we choose the support vector machine 

(SVM), and its evolution based on influence score and ranking is shown in Figure 8 (a) and 

(b) , respectively. SVM f irst appeared in the ACL paper in 2000. Unlike CFG, the influence 

of SVM in the network did not reach its peak as soon as it appeared. Since only five years 20 

had passed between the SVM being used and its appearance in ACL, it was not yet 

connected with othe r algorithms to achieve a higher group status. Since 2002, the influence 

ranking of SVM began to increase significantly. In 2004, SVM ranked first and got the 

highest impact scores in its academic career. Our analysis of the tasks handled by SVM 

over the y ears revealed a steady expansion in the range of tasks. In 2000, SVM was only 

used for discourse block recognition . T hen , it solved the text clustering task in 2001, and 

by 2004, it began to process semantic disambiguation, parsing, sentiment classification, 

automatic summarization, relationship recognition, and many other tasks. The wider the 

application range of SVM, the m ore opportunities it must cooperate and compare with other 

algorithms, and the faster the influence would grow. 

From 2005 to 2014, SVM entered a boom period, during which its centrality rankings 

fluctuated slightly but remained consistently in the top ten , and its centrality scores never 

declined. In this decade, many derivative algorithms and tools were proposed, such as the 

well -known LibSVM, and the basic SVM would appear together with more new algorithms. 

After 2015, the scores and rankings began to dr op sharply, because deep learning 

algorithms began to be widely used . SVM was not the core problem -solving method but 

appeared more as a baseline method. While SVM is the most representative statistical 

machine learning algorithm, deep learning algorithms have replaced its core position. Deep 

learning algorithms may have also negatively affected other statistical machine learning 

algorithms. As a result, the number and influence of algorithms adjacent to SVM also 

decrease, causing a drop in DC and AC scores .

(a) The influence score of SVM based on different centralit ies each year 

(b) The influence ranking of SVM based on different centralit ies each year 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 8. The influence evolution of support vector machine 

(3) The influence evolution of long short -term memory 21 

We selected long short -term memory (LSTM) as the representative deep learning algorithm. 

LSTM was initially proposed in 1997 (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber ,1997 ). In the first ten 

years of the 21st century, scholars proposed some epoch -making models , such as LSTM 

with a forget gate structure, but it didn’t garner substantial attention and widespread 

adoption in NLP until 2010 (Van Houdt et al. , 2020) . As depicted in Figure 9(a), LSTM 

was first introduced at the ACL conference in 2013 , when the centrality rankings were quite 

low. However, the network influence has grown extremely fast, ranking in the top 10 of all 

algorithms in each score within just three years . In 2015, Google first tried to combine 

LSTM with CTC (connectionist temporal classification) to process speech text. In the same 

year, two famous variants of LSTM, highway networks and ga ted recurrent unit (GRU), 

were propose d, and bidirectional LSTM was also combined with CRF for sequence 

annotation. Technology giants such as Google, Facebook, and Apple used LSTM to process 

sequence labeling tasks and applied it in various software such as translation software, 

voice input, a nd subtitle generation. Mentioning these new methods would simultaneously 

introduce the source algorithm, LSTM, which could explain why its network influence 

ranking peaked after 2015. 

The influence of LSTM began to decline in 2019. The decline in the ranking may be due 

to the increase of new algorithms, but the dec reas e in the score shows that other algorithms 

have shaken the position of LSTM. At the end of 2018, the pre -training model BERT was 

proposed and set off a new round of deep learning model re volution in the NLP field. 

Various algorithms derived from BERT are also emerging in an endless stream, and LSTM 

and related algorithms are inevitably affected. Therefore, each influence score and ranking 

of LSTM have shown a clear downward trend. 

(a) T he influence score of LSTM based on different centralit ies each year 

(b) The influence ranking of LSTM based on different centralit ies each year 

Source (s) : Figure by author s

Figure 9. The influence evolution of long short -term memory 22 

# 5. Discussion  

> (1) Influence ranking of algorithms based on traditional frequency indicator

Follow ing the existing method (Wang & Zhang , 2020) , we calculated the academic 

influence of algorithms based o n the number of papers mentioning them . Table 5 presents 

the top 10 algorithms ranked according to their frequency -based influence , where the most 

influential one is the newly proposed algorithm (compared to the data collection time), 

BERT. However, when w e compare the findings in Table 5 with our network -based results 

in the previous section, a compelling trend emerges: algorithms with a longer history get a

significant ascent in rankings when we account for the ir properties in the co -occurrence 

network. 

Newly proposed algorithms often attract considerable attention due to their exceptional 

initial performance, leading to a notable academic impact that can be captured by the 

frequency -based method . Nevertheless, the frequency fails to comprehensively understand 

their vital roles and contributions within the broader research community, which are 

precisely the classical algorithms that stand out. The interconnected network of algorithms, 

as illuminated in this study, furnishes us with a unique opportunity to uncover hidden 

dimensions of value among classical algorithms. By utilizing this approach, we discern 

their influence and contributions to community development and categorize their specific 

roles in the evolutionary process. F or instance, the support vector machine (SVM) emerges 

as a prominent “bridge builder, ” facilitating connections between other algorithms. This 

observation underscores the multifaceted roles algorithms assume in advancing the field. 

In light of these insigh ts, the network -based evaluation approach introduces a novel 

dimension that augments our ability to discern algorithmic roles and influences that remain 

elusive when solely relying on traditional frequency -based metrics.               

> Table 5. The top algorithm swith h igh influence by frequency
> Source(s): Table by authors
> Rank Alg orithm
> 1BERT
> 2long short -term memory
> 3transformer
> 4bi -directional long short -term
> memory
> 5support vector machine
> 6word2vec
> 7convolutional neural network
> 8context free grammar
> 9gated recurrent unit
> 10 maximum entropy

(2) Why do algorithms co -occur in papers in the NLP domain ?

Our research illuminate s a pronounced phenomenon within the realm of Natural Language 

Processing (NLP): a burgeoning level of interaction among algorithms within the network, 

a trend that exhibits growth over time . To unravel this intricate web of algorithm 

interactions, we syste matically identified and scrutinized the edges with the highest weights 23 

within the a nn ual network, thereby dissecting the algorithm nodes linked by these pivotal 

connections. Based on t he top three edges of each year in Table 6, we can infer that the 

algor ithms were mentioned together for three reasons. First, algorithms are conjoined due 

to a subordinate relationship , impl ying that it becomes imperative to introduce their parent 

algorithms when discussing sub -algorithms. For instance, “C4.5 -Decision Tree ,” where 

C4.5 represents a specialized variant within the broader category of decision trees. Second, 

there is a competitive relationship between algorithms. When confronted with specific NLP 

tasks, researchers often assess and compare the performance of multiple algorithms of the 

same genre. For example, the decision tree and the support vector machine were used 

simultaneously to compare which performs better. Third, a cooperative relationship among 

algorithms comes into play, where employi ng two or more algorithms enhance s outcomes 

compared to individual deployment. F or example, “HMM -Ma xEnt”, combining HMM and 

Ma xEnt can get MEMM and produce better results .

Table 6. Top three algorithm pairs in the algorithm co -occurrence network by year 

Source(s): Table by authors 

Rank 

Year 1 2 3

1979 ATN -Discrimination 

Network CFG -Local Maxima 

1980 CFG -PSG ATN -Semantic Grammar ATN -Author Topic 

1981 Left corner parsing -Semantic 

grammar ATN - Left corner parsing CYK - Left corner parsing 

1982 ATN -CFG ATN -GPSG ATN -CFPSG 

1983 CFG -GPSG GPSG -LFG CFG -LFG 

1984 CFG -LFG DCG -LFG CFG -DCG 

1985 CFG -DCG CFG - Left corner parsing DCG - Left corner parsing 

1986 CFG -TAG CFG -GPSG LFG -TAG 

1987 CFG -DCG DCG -FUG CFG -FUG 

1988 CFG -TAG GPSG -TAG CYK -CFG 

1989 DCG - Left corner parsing HDPSG -UCG CFPSG - Left corner 

parsing 

1990 CFG -TAG CYK -CFG CYK -TAG 

1991 CFG -TAG FUG -HDPSG Left Corner -TAG 

1992 CYK -CFG CFG -TAG CFG - Left corner parsing 

1993 HMM -Mutual Information CFG -HDPSG CFG -Mutual Information 

1994 CFG - Left corner parsing DCG - Left corner parsing DP -HMM 

1995 Decision Tree -DP Mutual Information -Yarowsky HDPSG -TAG 

1996 CFG -TAG CYK -CFG DTG -TAG 

1997 EM -Maximum Likelihood 

Estimation CFG -TAG DCG -HDPSG 

1998 CFG -TAG C4.5 -Decision Tree HDPSG -TAG 

1999 C4.5 -Decision Tree CFG -PCFG Mutual Information -

Nearest Neighbor 

2000 HMM -MaxEnt Decision Tree -MaxEnt Decision Tree -HMM 

2001 HMM -MaxEnt DP -MaxEnt CYK -DP 

2002 HMM -MaxEnt Generali zed Iterative Scaling -

MaxEnt Decision Tree -MaxEnt 

2003 HMM -MaxEnt IBM Model -Viterbi Alignment Beam Search -MaxEnt 

2004 CFG -PCFG DP -PCFG EM -PCFG 

2005 MaxEnt -SVM HMM -MaxEnt CRF -HMM 

2006 Decision Tree -SVM MaxEnt -SVM Decision Tree -MaxEnt 

2007 HMM -MaxEnt CRF -HMM MaxEnt -SVM 24                                                    

> 2008 Decision Tree -SVM Naive Bayes -SVM MaxEnt -SVM
> 2009 CRF -MaxEnt MaxEnt -SVM DP -HMM
> 2010 EM -HMM CRF -HMM MaxEnt -SVM
> 2011 MaxEnt -SVM EM -HMM Naïve bayes -SVM
> 2012 Gibbs Sampling -LDA EM -HMM MaxEnt -SVM
> 2013 Gibbs Sampling -LDA CRF -SVM CRF -Maxent
> 2014 Gibbs Sampling -LDA Back Propagation algorithm -
> Neural Network EM -HMM
> 2015 Neural Network -SGD Neural Network -Softmax Softmax -SGD
> 2016 Neural Network -RNN LSTM -Neural Network LSTM -RNN
> 2017 LSTM -Neural Network Neural Network -RNN LSTM -RNN
> 2018 LSTM -Neural Network LSTM -RNN BiLSTM -LSTM
> 2019 BiLSTM -LSTM LSTM -Neural Network LSTM -RNN
> 2020 Bert -Neural Network Bert -Softmax LSTM -Neural Network
> Note: Abbreviation in the table :ATN ( augmented transition network ); CFG ( context free grammar ); DP
> (dynamic progr amming); DTG ( description tree grammar ); PCFG ( probabilistic context free grammar ); FUG
> (functional unification grammar ); PSG ( phrase structure grammar ); UCG ( unification categorial grammar );
> LFG ( lexical functional grammar ); TAG ( tree adjoin ing grammar ); CYK ( cocke younger kasami ); HDPSG
> (head -driven phrase structure grammar ); CFPSG( context free phrase structure grammar ); GPSG( generalized
> phrase structure grammar ); DCG ( definite clause grammar ); SVM( support vector machine ); HMM ( hidden
> marko v model ); EM ( expectation maximization ); LDA ( latent dirichlet allocation ); CRF ( conditional random
> field ); Maxent ( maximum entropy ); SGD ( stochastic gradient descent ); LSTM ( long short term m emory);
> BiLSTM ( bi -directional long short term memory ); RNN( recurrent neural network ).

(3) The evolution rules of network influence 

We compared the influence ranking and evolution of different algorithms based on the 

network. Despite the inherent variability in the i nfluence of individual algorithms, we 

identified several overarching trends that provide valuable insights into the dynamics of 

algorithmic influence. 

Firstly, we observe that algorithms with a more extended utilization history , preceding 

their introdu ction to the ACL stage, tend to exhibit higher levels of network influence. 

Specifically, CFG took approximately 20 years, SVM six years, and LSTM three years 

from widespread use to being mentioned in ACL conferences. Moreover, the network 

centrality ranki ngs and scores they received after their first appearance in ACL conferences 

gradually decreased, with CFG being the highest and LSTM the lowest. We hypothesiz e

that if the algorithm ha d been used sufficiently before used in the ACL, it could have built 

up associations with other algorithms and accumulated enough reputation to gain a high 

network influence .

Second, the social relationships of algorithms at different career stages have changed. If 

an algorithm ’s social connections remain stable, its influence score does not change, but 

the exit of old algorithms and the addition of new algorithms may cause fluctuations in 

ranking . However, in our results, the network influence score of an algorithm also show s

clear perio ds of rise, boom , and bust over time, implying that both the quantity and quality 

of connections with other algorithms evolve as the algorithm matures . When an algorithm 

enters a prosperous period, more and more neighbors connect with it, and its core posi tion 

in the algorithm network become s stable. Conversely, as it enters a period of decline, the 

number and significance of connections with other algorithms diminish, resulting in the 

gradual disintegration of its social relationships .

Third, the evolution of influence based on each centralit y shows different trends. Notably, 

Betweenness Centrality always has the lowest score and the highest decline rate, while 25 

Closeness Centrality has the low est decline rate. We postulate that as an algorithm’s 

influence wanes within the group, it typically follows a progression: firstly , it no longer 

occupies the core position as a bridge ; next, it gradually loses the proportion of influence 

among neighbor algorithms, and then the number of algorithms connected with it de creases 

continuously, while the algorithm ’s distance from all other algorithms changes minimally. 

# 6. Conclusion s

In this work , we explore the influence of algorithm s based on the algorithm co -occurrence 

network in the NLP domain. First , we automatically extract algorithms in academic papers, 

construct an algorithm network according to the ir co -occurrence, and explore the evolving 

characteristics of the algorithm network. W e find that knowledge networks represented by 

algorithms have the s ame characteristics as other complex networks. A shift from 

dispersion to co -prosperity during the network evolution indicates a growing symbiotic 

relationship between algorithms and NLP research. Then, we evaluate the influence of 

algorithms by the charac teristics of various co -occurrence networks . The results indicate 

regardless of the category to which the algorithms belong , influential algorithms within the 

algorithm community ar e often classical algorithms with numerous derivative counterparts ,

possessing sufficiently good performance to drive the development of algorithms in the 

same category. We conduct a temporal analysis of the influence trends for three 

representative algorithms and elucidate the underlying factors governing th eir evolution. 

We observe that shifts in social relations coincide with the development of algorithms, with 

algorithms expanding their social circles during boom periods and contracting during 

recessions. During this process, algorithms typically lose thei r core network position and 

then lose associated neighbor node s. 

Although our study revealed valuable insights , there are still some limitations. First, we

only constructed the network based on algorithms mentioned in NLP papers, and the 

evaluation results might not hold in a different field, as each domain has its unique ways 

of mentioning and utilizing the same algorithms. However, the comprehensive research 

approach provided in this paper is still transferable and can be applied to data in other fields. 

Secondly, we only consider co -occurrence at the article level, which could not help us 

obtain a more fine -grained co -occurrence relationship between algorithms . Finally, the 

network only reflects co -occurrence relationships, and some semantic relationships, such 

as cooperation or competition, could not be directly reflected. 

In the future, we plan to explore co -occurrence relationships at a more granular level, 

such as the sentence or section lev el, and study the semantic relationships between pairs of 

co -occurring algorithms. To this end, we can add semantic edges to the network to 

understand how the algorithms were mentioned together. We also intend to incorporate 

author information, topics, or tasks of the papers that mention the algorithms to construct 

a multi -layer network, analyze the relationships between algorithms, tasks, and scholars in 

the field, and explore algorithm -based partner recommendation, task -based algorithm 

recommendation, and other valuable applications. 26 

# Acknowledgment s

This study has received support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China 

(Grant No. 72074113 , 72374103) and the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Korea 

and the National Research Foundation o f Korea (NRF -2020S1A5B1104865). 

# References 

Abbasi, A., Hossain, L. and Leydesdorff, L. (2012), “Betweenness centrality as a driver of 

preferential attachment in the evolution of re search collaboration networks”, Journal of 

Informetrics , Vol. 6 No. 3, pp. 403 –412, doi: 10.1016/j.joi.2012.01.002. 

Albert, R. and Barabási, A. -L. (2000), “Topol ogy of evolving networks: local events and 

universa lity”, Physical Review Letters , American Physical Society, Vol. 85 No. 24, pp. 

5234 –5237, doi: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.85.5234. 

Azoulay, A. (2019), “Tow ards an ethics of artificial inte lligence”, United Nations , United Nations, 

Vol. 55 No. 4, pp. 24 –25. 

Balcan, M. -F. (2020), “Data -driven alg orithm design”, arXiv Preprint arXiv:2011.07177 .

Barnett, G.A., Huh, C., Kim, Y. and Park, H.W. (2011), “Citations among communication journals 

and other disciplines: a network analysis”, Scientometrics , Vol. 88 No. 2, pp. 449 –469, doi: 

10.1007/s11192 -011 -0381 -2. 

Belter, C.W. and I, B.H. (2014), “Meas uring the value of research data: a citation analysis of 

oceanographic data se ts”, Plos One , Vol. 9 No. 3, p. e92590. 

Bhatia, S. and Mitra, P. (2012), “Summarizing figures, tables, and algorithms in scientific 

publications to augment search results”, ACM Transactions on Information Systems , Vol. 

30 No. 1, pp. 1 –24, doi: 10.1145/2094072.2094075 .

Bhatia, S., Tuarob, S., Mitra, P. and Giles, C.L. (2011), “A n algorithm search engine for software 

developers”, Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on Search -Driven 

Development: Users, Infrastructure, Tools, and Evaluation , ACM, Honolulu, HI, USA, pp. 

13 –16. 

Blass, A. and Gurevich, Y. (2004), “Algorithms: a quest for absolute definitions”, Current Trends 

in Theoretical Computer Science , World scientific, pp. 283 –311, doi: 

10.1142/9789812562494_0051. 

Brandes, U. (2001), “A faster algorithm for betweenness centrality”, The Journal of Mathematical 

Sociology , Vol. 25 No. 2, pp. 163 –177, doi: 10.1080/0022250X.2001.9990249. 

ByteBridge. (2021), “Importanc e of training data in different ai algorithm sta ge”, Medium , 13 

November, available at: https://becominghuman.ai/the -different -algorithm -stage -the -

differentiated -demand -for -data -b25e16d230d9 (accessed 8 December 2021). 

Carman, S.H. (2013), Algseer: An architecture for extraction, indexing and search of algorithms 

in scientific literature , The Pennsylvania State University. 

Chen, C. and Kuljis, J. (2003), “The risin g landscape: A visual exploration of superstring 

revolutions in physics”, Journal of the American Society for Information Science and 

Technology , Vol. 54 No. 5, pp. 435 –446, doi: 10.1002/asi.10229. 

Cormen, T.H., Leiserson, C.E., Rivest, R.L. and Stein, C. (2009), Introduction to Algorithms , 3rd 

ed., MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA. 

Dai, Z., Wang, X., Ni, P., Li, Y., Li, G. and Bai, X. (2019), “Named entity recognition using BERT 

BiLSTM CRF for Chinese electronic health records”, Proceedings of the 12th Intern ational 

Congress on Image and Signal Processing, BioMedical Engineering and Informatics 

(CISP -BMEI), HuaQiao, China, pp. 1 –5, doi: 10.1109/CISP -BMEI48845.2019.8965823 .

Dangalchev, C. (2006), “Residual closeness in networks”, Physica A: Statistical Mechanic s and Its 

Applications , Vol. 365 No. 2, pp. 556 –564, doi: 10.1016/j.physa.2005.12.020. 27 

Deng, C., Ji, X., Rainey, C., Zhang, J. and Lu, W. (2020), “Int egrating machine learning with 

human knowle dge”, iScience , Vol. 23 No. 11, p. 101656, doi: 10.1016/j.isci. 2020.101656. 

“Depsy:valuing the software that powers science”. ( 2023 ). , available at: http://depsy.org/ (accessed 

08 December 202 3). 

Devlin, J., Chang, M. -W., Lee, K. and Toutanova, K. (2019), “BERT: Pre -training of deep 

bidirectional transformers for lan guage understanding”, Proceedings of the NAACL -HLT 

2019, Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis, Minnesota, pp. 4171 –4186, 

doi: 10.18653/v1/N19 -1423 .

Ding, R., Wang, Y. and Zhang, C. (2019), “Investigating Citation of Algorithm in Full -text of 

Academic Articles in NLP domain: A Preliminary Study”, Proceedings of the 17th 

International Conference on Scientometrics and Informetrics (ISSI 2019), Rome, Italy, pp. 

2726 –2727 .

Ding, Y., Song, M., Han, J., Yu, Q., Yan, E., Lin, L. and Chamb ers, T. (2013), “Entitymetrics: 

Measuring the impact of entities”, PloS One , Vol. 8 No. 8, p. e71416. 

Ding, Y., Yan, E., Frazho, A. and Caverlee, J. (2009), “PageRank for ranking authors in co -citation 

networks”, Journal of the American Society for Informa tion Science and Technology , Vol. 

60 No. 11, pp. 2229 –2243, doi: 10.1002/asi.21171. 

Dorogovtsev, S.N. and Mendes, J.F.F. (2002), “Evolution of networks”, Advances in Physics , Vol. 

51 No. 4, pp. 1079 –1187, doi: 10.1080/00018730110112519. 

Fiala, D. (2012), “ Time -aware PageRank for bibliographic networks”, Journal of Informetrics , Vol. 

6 No. 3, pp. 370 –388, doi: 10.1016/j.joi.2012.02.002. 

Fleury, A., Vacher, M. and Noury, N. (2010), “SVM -Ba sed multimodal classification of activities 

of daily living in health s mart homes: sensors, algorithms, and first experimental resu lts”, 

IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine , Vol. 14 No. 2, pp. 274 –

283, doi: 10.1109/TITB.2009.2037317. 

Freeman, L. (1977), “A set of measures of centrality based upon betwee nness”, Sociometry , Vol. 

40 No. 1, pp. 35 –41. https://doi.org/10.2307/3033543 .

Freeman, L.C. (1980), “The gatekeeper, pair -dependency and structural centrality”, Quality and 

Quantity , Vol. 14 No. 4, pp. 585 –592, doi: 10.1007/BF00184720. 

Genics, T. (2019), Algorithms: Discover the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Used to 

Solve Everyday Human Problems, Optimize Habits, Learn Anything and Organize Your 

Life , Trustgenics .

Grames, E.M., Stillman, A.N., Tingley, M.W. and Elphick, C.S. (2019), “An auto mated approach 

to identifying search terms for systematic reviews using keyword co -occurrence networks”, 

Methods in Ecology and Evolution , Vol. 10 No. 10, pp. 1645 –1654, doi: 10.1111/2041 -

210X.13268. 

Gupta, R. and Roughgarden, T. (2020), “Data -driven algor ithm design”, Communications of the 

ACM , ACM New York, NY, USA, Vol. 63 No. 6, pp. 87 –94. 

Han, P., Shi, J., Li, X., Wang, D., Shen, S. and Su, X. (2014), “International collaboration in LIS: 

global trends and networks at the country and institution level”, Scientometrics , Vol. 98 

No. 1, pp. 53 –72, doi: 10.1007/s11192 -013 -1146 -x. 

He J, Lou W, and Li K. (2019), “How were science mapping tools applied? The Application of 

science mapping tools in LIS and non -LIS domains”, Journal of the Association for 

Informat ion Science and Technology , Vol. 56 No. 1, pp. 404 –408. 

Hickman, L. (2013), “How algorithms rule the world”, The Guardian , 1 July. 

Hochreiter, S. and Schmidhuber, J. (1997), “Long Short -Term Memory”, Neural Computation ,

presented at the Neural Computation, Vol. 9 No. 8, pp. 1735 –1780, doi: 

10.1162/neco.1997.9.8.1735. 

Hou, L., Zhang, J., Wu, O., Yu, T., Wang, Z., Li, Z., Gao, J., et al . (2022), “Method and dataset 

entity mining in scientific literature: A CNN + BiLSTM model with self -attention”, 

Knowledge -Based Systems , Vol. 235, p. 107621, doi: 10.1016/j.knosys.2021.107621. 28 

Huang, L., Chen, X., Ni, X., Liu, J., Cao, X. and Wang, C. (20 21), “Tracking the dynamics of co -

word networks for emerging topic identification”, Technological Forecasting and Social 

Change , Vol. 170, p. 120944, doi: 10.1016/j.techfore.2021.120944. 

Kadlec , V. (2008), Syntactic Analysis of Natural Languages Based on C ontext Free Grammar 

Backbone , PhD Thesis Specification, Masaryk University. 

Kark, S., Levin, N., Grantham, H.S. and Possingham, H.P. (2009), “Between -country collaboration 

and consideration of costs increase conservation planning efficiency in the Mediterra nean 

Basin”, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , National Academy of Sciences, 

Vol. 106 No. 36, pp. 15368 –15373, doi: 10.1073/pnas.0901001106. 

Kim, H.D., Lee, D.H., Choe, H. and Seo, I.W. (2014), “The evolution of cluster network structure 

and firm growth: a study of industrial software clusters”, Scientometrics , Vol. 99 No. 1, pp. 

77 –95, doi: 10.1007/s11192 -013 -1094 -5. 

Knuth, D., E. (1996), Selected Papers on Computer Science , Cambridge University Press. 

Kogan, N.E., Clemente, L., Liautaud, P. , Kaashoek, J., Link, N.B., Nguyen, A.T., Lu, F.S., et al. 

(2021), “An early warning approach to monitor COVID -19 activity with multiple digital 

traces in near real time”, Science Advances , Vol. 7 No. 10, p. eabd6989, doi: 

10.1126/sciadv.abd6989. 

Kumar, S. (2015), “Efficacy of a giant component in co -authorship networks: Evidence from a 

Southeast Asian dataset in economics”, Aslib Journal of Information Management ,

Emerald Group Publishing Limited, Vol. 68 No. 1, pp. 19 –32, doi: 10.1108/AJIM -12 -

2014 -0172. 

Kumar, S. (2019), “Do prestige and trust sustain knowledge -based communities? Evidence from 

Medical Ethics co -authorship networks in France: A micro study”, Aslib Journal of 

Information Management , Emerald Publishing Limited, Vol. 71 No. 2, pp. 281 –302, doi :

10.1108/AJIM -06 -2018 -0155. 

Kumar, V. and Srivastava, A. (2021), “Mapping the evolution of research themes in business ethics: 

a co -word network analysis”, VINE Journal of Information and Knowledge Management 

Systems , Emerald Publishing Limited, Vol. 53 N o. 3, pp. 491 –522, doi: 10.1108/VJIKMS -

10 -2020 -0199. 

Li, K., Greenberg, J. and Dunic, J. (2020), “Data objects and documenting scientific processes: An 

analysis of data events in biodiversity data papers”, Journal of the Association for 

Information Science and Technology , Vol. 71 No. 2, pp. 172 –182. 

Li, K. and Xu, S. (2017), “Measuring the impact of R packages”, Proceedings of the Association 

for Information Science and Technology, Washington D.C, USA , pp. 739 –741. 

Li, K. and Yan, E. (2018), “Co -mention network of R packages: Scientific impact and clustering 

structure”, Journal of Informetrics , Vol. 12 No. 1, pp. 87 –100. 

Liu, N. and Guan, J. (2015), “Dynamic evolution of collaborative networks: evidence from nano -

ene rgy research in China”, Scientometrics , Vol. 102 No. 3, pp. 1895 –1919, doi: 

10.1007/s11192 -014 -1508 -z. 

Liu, P. and Xia, H. (2015), “Structure and evolution of co -authorship network in an 

interdisciplinary research field”, Scientometrics , Vol. 103 No. 1, pp . 101 –134, doi: 

10.1007/s11192 -014 -1525 -y. 

Liu, Y., Xia, Z., Yi, P., Yao, Y., Xie, T., Wang, W. and Zhu, T. (2018), “GENPass: A General 

Deep Learning Model for Password Guessing with PCFG Rules and Adversarial 

Generation”, Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE Inte rnational Conference on Communications 

(ICC), Kansas, USA, pp. 1 –6, doi: 10.1109/ICC.2018.8422243 .

Lozano, S., Calzada -Infante, L., Adenso -Díaz, B. and García, S. (2019), “Complex network 

analysis of keywords co -occurrence in the recent efficiency analysis literature”, 

Scientometrics , Vol. 120 No. 2, pp. 609 –629, doi: 10.1007/s11192 -019 -03132 -w. 29 

Lum, K. and Chowdhury, R. (2021), “What is an ‘algorithm’? It depends whom you ask”, MIT 

Technology Review , available at: https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/02/2 6/1020 

007/what -is -an -algorithm/ (accessed 8 December 202 3). 

Ma, S. and Zhang, C. (2017), “Using Full -text to Evaluate Impact of Different Software Groups 

information.”, Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientometrics and 

Informetric s (ISSI 2017) , Wuhan ，China, pp. 1666 –1667. 

Matheson, R. (2020), “Using artificial intelligence to enrich digital maps”, MIT News |

Massachusetts Institute of Technology , available at: https://news.mit.edu/2020/artificial -

intelligence -digital -maps -0123 (acc essed 08 Dece mber 202 3). 

Ortega, J.L. (2021), “How do media mention research papers? Structural analysis of blogs and news 

networks using citation coupling”, Journal of Informetrics , Vol. 15 No. 3, p. 101175, doi: 

10.1016/j.joi.2021.101175. 

Pan, X., Yan, E ., Cui, M. and Hua, W. (2018), “Examining the usage, citation, and diffusion 

patterns of bibliometric mapping software: A comparative study of three tools”, Journal of 

Informetrics , Vol. 12 No. 2, pp. 481 –493. 

Pan, X., Yan, E. and Hua, W. (2016), “Discipli nary differences of software use and impact in 

scientific literature”, Scientometrics , Vol. 109 No. 3, pp. 1593 –1610. 

Pan, X., Yan, E., Wang, Q. and Hua, W. (2015), “Assessing the impact of software on science: A 

bootstrapped learning of software entities in full -text papers”, Journal of Informetrics , Vol. 

9 No. 4, pp. 860 –871. 

Panchendrarajan, R. and Amaresan, A. (2018), “Bidirectional LSTM -CRF for named entity 

recognition”, Proceedings of the 32nd Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information 

and Compu tation, Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, pp. 531 -

540 .

“Papers with Code - Browse the State -of -the -Art in Machine Learning”. (202 3), , available at: 

https://paperswithcode.com/sota (accessed 9 December 202 3). 

Radhakrishnan, S., E rbis, S., Isaacs, J.A. and Kamarthi, S. (2017), “Novel keyword co -occurrence 

network -based methods to foster systematic reviews of scientific literature”, PLOS ONE ,

Vol. 12 No. 3, p. e0172778, doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172778. 

Safder, I., Hassan, S. -U., Visvizi, A., Noraset, T., Nawaz, R. and Tuarob, S. (2020), “Deep 

Learning -based Extraction of Algorithmic Metadata in Full -Text Scholarly Documents”, 

Information Processing & Management , Vol. 57 No. 6, p. 102269, doi: 

10.1016/j.i pm.2020.102269. 

Sahu, S. and Anand, A. (2016), “Recurrent neural network models for disease name recognition 

using domain invariant features”, Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the 

Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), Berlin, Germany, pp. 

2216 –2225, doi: 10.18653/v1/P16 -1209 .

Singh, C.K., Filho, D.V., Jolad, S. and O’Neale, D.R.J. (2020), “Evolution of interdependent co -

authorship and citation networks”, Scientometrics , Vol. 125 No. 1, pp. 385 –404, doi: 

10.1007/s11192 -020 -03616 -0. 

Song, Y., Wei, K., Yang, S., Shu, F. and Qiu, J. (2023), “Analysis on the research progress of 

library and information science since the new century”, Library Hi Tech , Vol. 41 No. 4, pp. 

1145 –1157, doi: 10.1108/LHT -06 -2020 -0126. 

Souza, F., Nogu eira, R. and Lotufo, R. (2020), “Portuguese Named Entity Recognition using 

BERT -CRF”, arXiv:1909.10649 [Cs] .

Stack Overflow. (2023), “Stack Overflow Developer Survey 2023”, Stack Overflow , available at: 

https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2023/ (accessed 9 Dec ember 2023). 

Stanojević, M. and Steedman, M. (2020), “Max -Margin Incremental CCG Parsing”, Proceedings 

of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , Online, pp. 

4111 –4122, doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.acl -main.378 .30 

Stone, H.S. (1971), Introduction to Computer Organization and Data Structures , McGraw -Hill, 

Inc., USA. 

Takeda, Y. and Kajikawa, Y. (2008), “Optics: a bibliometric approach to detect emerging research 

domains and intellectual bases”, Scientometrics , Vol. 78 No. 3, pp. 543 –558, doi: 

10.1007/s11192 -007 -2012 -5. 

Talaviya, T., Shah, D., Patel, N., Yagnik, H. and Shah, M. (2020), “Implementation of artificial 

intelligence in agriculture for optimisation of irrigation and application of pesticides and 

herbicides”, Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture , Vol. 4, pp. 58 –73, doi: 

10.1016/j.aiia.2020.04.002. 

Tang, J. (2021), “The next ten -year in AI”, available at: 

https://keg.cs.tsinghua.edu.cn/jietang/publications/Next -AI10.pdf. 

Teufel, S. (2006), “Automatic classification of citation function”, In: Proceedings of the 2006 

Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , Sydney, Australia, pp. 

103 –110. 

“The heart of machine”. (2021), The heart of machine , available at: http s://www.jiqizhixin.com/ 

sota (accessed 9 December 202 3). 

Thelwall, M. and Kousha, K. (2016), “Academic software downloads from Google Code: useful 

usage indicators?”, Information Research , Vol. 21 No. 1, p. 1-14 .

TIOBE -index. (2023), “index | TIOBE - The Software Quality Company”, available at: 

https://www.tiobe.com/tiobe -index/ (accessed 8 December 2023). 

Tuarob, S. (2014), Information Extraction and Metadata Annotation for Algorithms in Digital 

Libraries , The Pennsylvania State University. 

Tuarob, S. (201 6), “Improving pseudo -code detection in ubiquitous scholarly data using ensemble 

machine learning”, 2016 International Computer Science and Engineering Conference 

(ICSEC) , IEEE, pp. 1 –6.

Tuarob, S., Bhatia, S., Mitra, P. and Giles, C.L. (2013 a), “Automatic Detection of Pseudocodes in 

Scholarly Documents Using Machine Learning”, 2013 12th International Conference on 

Document Analysis and Recognition , pp. 738 –742, doi: 10.1109/ICDAR.2013.151 .

Tuarob, S., Bhatia, S., Mitra, P. and Giles, C.L. (2016), “Algorith mSeer: A Syste m for extracting 

and searching for algorithms in scholarly big da ta”, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON BIG DATA ,

Vol. 2 No. 1, pp. 3 –17. 

Tuarob, S., Kang, S., Wettayakorn, P., Pornprasit, C., Sachati, T., Hassan, S. -U. and Haddawy, P. 

(2019), “Automa tic classification of algorithm citation functions in scientific litera ture”, 

IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , Vol. 32 No. 10, pp. 1881 –1896, 

doi: 10.1109/TKDE.2019.2913376. 

Tuarob, S., Mitra, P. and Giles, C.L. (2013 b), “A classification s cheme for algorithm citation 

function in scholarly works”, Proceedings of the 13th ACM/IEEE -CS Joint Conference on 

Digital Libraries, ACM, Washington, DC, USA, pp. 367 –368 .

Tuarob, S., Mitra, P. and Giles, C.L. (2014), “Building a search engine for algorit hms”, ACM 

SIGWEB Newsletter , No. Winter, p. 5. 

Van Houdt, G., Mosquera, C. and Nápoles, G. (2020), “A review on the long short -term memory 

model”, Artificial Intelligence Review , Vol. 53 No. 8, pp. 5929 –5955, doi: 10.1007/s10462 -

020 -09838 -1. 

Wang, Y. and Z hang, C. (2018), “Using full -text of research articles to analyze academic impact 

of algorithms”, In: International Conference on Information. Springer , Cham, pp. 395 –

401. 

Wang, Y. and Zhang, C. (2019), “Finding More Methodological Entities from Academic A rticles 

via Iterative Strategy: A Preliminary Study”, Proceedings of the International Society for 

Scientometrics and Informetrics, Rome, Italy, pp. 2702 –2703 .31 

Wang, Y. and Zhang, C. (2020), “Using the full -text content of academic articles to identify and 

evaluate algorithm entities in the domain of natural language processing”, Journal of 

Informetrics , Vol. 14 No. 4, p. 101091, doi: 10.1016/j.joi.2020.101091. 

Wang, Y., Zhang, C. and Li, K. (2022), “A review on method entities in the academic literature: 

extraction, evaluation, and application”, Scientometrics , Vol. 127 No. 5, pp. 2479 –2520, 

doi: 10.1007/s11192 -022 -04332 -7. 

Wu, X., Kumar, V., Quinlan, J.R., Ghosh, J., Yang, Q., Motoda, H., McLachlan, G.J., et al. (2008), 

“Top 10 algorithms in data mining”, Knowledge & Information Systems , Vol. 14 No. 1, pp. 

1–37. 

Xu, X., Zhu, C., Wang, Q., Zhu, X. and Zhou, Y. (2020), “Identifying vital nodes in complex 

networks by adjacency information entropy”, Scientific Reports , Vol. 10 No. 1, p. 2691, 

doi: 10.1038/s41598 -020 -59616 -w. 

Yoon, J., Chung, E., Lee, J.Y. and Kim, J. (2019), “How research data is cited in scholarly literature: 

A case study of HINTS”, Learned Publishing , Vol. 32, pp. 199 –206. 

Yu, Q., Ding, Y., Song, M., Song, S., Liu, J. and Zhang, B. (2015), “Tracing database usage: 

Detecting main paths in database lin k networks”, Journal of Informetrics , Vol. 9 No. 1, pp. 

1–15, doi: 10.1016/j.joi.2014.10.002. 

Yuan, C., Li, G., Kamarthi, S., Jin, X. and Moghaddam, M. (2022), “Trends in intelligent 

manufacturing research: a keyword co -occurrence network based review”, Jo urnal of 

Intelligent Manufacturing , Vol. 33 No. 2, pp. 425 –439, doi: 10.1007/s10845 -021 -01885 -x. 

Zha, H., Chen, W., Li, K. and Yan, X. (2019), “Mining Algorithm Roadmap in Scientific 

Publications”, Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conferenc e on 

Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, ACM, Anchorage, AK, USA pp. 1083 –1092 .

Zhang, C., Mayr, P., Lu, W. and Zhang, Y. (2023), “Extraction and evaluation of knowledge entities 

in the age of artificial intelligence”, Aslib Journal of Information Management , Emerald 

Publishing Limited, Vol. 75 No. 3, pp. 433 –437, doi: 10.1108/AJIM -05 -2023 -507. 

Zhang, L., Glänzel, W. and Liang, L. (2009), “Tracing the role of individual journals in a cross -

citation network based on different indicators”, Scientometrics , Vol. 81 No. 3, pp. 821 –

838, doi: 10.1007/s11192 -008 -2245 -y. 

Zheng, J., Gong, J., Li , R., Hu, K., Wu, H. and Yang, S. (2017), “Community evolution analysis 

based on co -author network: a case study of academic communities of the journal of 

‘Annals of the Association of American Geographers’”, Scientometrics , Vol. 113 No. 2, 

pp. 845 –865, do i: 10.1007/s11192 -017 -2515 -7.